i'd like to begin this live stream  by inviting you to ask yourself a  hypothetical question  that's not too terribly hypothetical  what if  you decided  that from now on  starting tomorrow  every single email  you send  you will read aloud and discuss  in a youtube video  if you send an email to your mom  you send an email to your ex-boyfriend  ex-girlfriend  whatever it is you have email about work  you're gonna take the time to sit down  narrate it read it out loud to a camera  and you know while you're doing that in  the youtube video you can add some  commentary you can add some reflections  on what you were thinking  on your mind why you sent this  email  what will be the impact  on your life i think for one thing most  of you would probably send  fewer email messages  you would probably  really think through whether or not what  you had to say was meaningful enough  to put pen to paper so to speak is this  meaningful enough to waste this other  person's time with is it meaningful  enough to waste my time with to impose  on an audience even if only a few people  in your audience see it  how about facebook messages  how about instagram messages right  one of the most common comments i get  is of people  complaining  that i take things too seriously  this is one of those simple  ideas in our culture that people are  very reluctant to unpack and examine  and take seriously  what do you mean what do you mean i take  things too too seriously  what's what's the counter posed virtue  you're presuming that i'd be a better  person  i'd live a better life  the world would be a better place if i  didn't  take things seriously what's the  opposite  of taking things seriously  if you were going to  narrate publicly on youtube  each and every email you sent everyone  you would take  that email correspondence  more  seriously  now  i do live my life in a way where frankly  i think i could make a youtube video  about every single email i send to  people  what i write to people is really  meaningful it really matters i really am  writing with very serious intent  i have a viewer who's in his last year  of high school and he's been writing to  me about advice about various things  including just his struggles to quit  video games his struggles to kind of  improve himself intellectually find  meaning and purpose and motivational  life just just down-to-earth struggles  his frustration with his teachers and  his classmates in high school  let me tell you something  i could make a youtube video where i'm  just reading out my replies to this guy  in his last year in high school every  single piece of advice i've given him i  could  read here  for an audience and you know  somebody  might appreciate it somebody might be  able to make use of it this is part of  the puzzle of the internet in the 21st  century  i see people giving  writing advice  on the internet how to be a better  writer how to write a better book can  you imagine anything more deeply  personal unique and specific than to  criticize someone's writing and tell  them how to be a better writer how could  that possibly be you know commodified  mass manufactured and distributed you  know on on youtube or on any other  platform how can you make a podcast out  of that so it's useful for 100 people a  thousand people or a million people you  can't right there's a deeply personal  deeply specific thing  but then the flip side of that  culturally  is that how people perceive what i'm  doing  here on youtube right there's this very  strange  discomfort  and you know i really do understand it  when people look at what i'm doing in  criticizing others offering advice to  others  and they say well man  you take life way too serious i can't  believe you're taking it this  this seriously  you know what is it i'm taking seriously  i'm taking seriously individual people  ruining their own lives i mean from my  perspective  when i'm talking to an individual  like tiki or sam  when i'm talking to an individual like  vegan gains  i am  trying to save  their life  and i have no hope whatsoever  that i'm going to help them i have no  delusion  that i could improve their life or  influence them positively in any way  whatsoever  another great example of this in a  youtube video that reached a pretty  large audience on my channel  the advice i gave to  nicotto avocado  made a couple videos reflecting on the  situation he's in the background he  comes from  and it may sound ridiculous but if you  go back and dig guys he knows me he  knows this youtube channel from whatever  it is seven years ago eight years ago  now uh we're not such strangers we're  not even six degrees of separation apart  you know there are ways in which nicato  and i are linked i have no delusion  whatsoever that nicoto avocado  personally can can benefit from my  critique from my advice right but  somebody  in the audience  can  and  it may not be someone who is as obese or  as delusional  as nick gutto of kato it may be someone  who's not even 10 percent as damaged and  messed up as they got avocado i mean  the discussions i have on my channel  about the importance of quitting drugs  quitting alcohol quitting video games  living a really sober highly motivated  meaningful life  a lot  of the fan mail i get it's from people  who already are living that way right  but uh  [Laughter]  uh it would be too much to say they're  tempted  uh to go back to drugs to go back to  alcohol to go back to video games  they live a life where  their own brother their own sister their  own work colleagues everyone is always  pressuring them to instead live this  more mindless  more self-indulgent life they have to  live kind of constantly prepared to fend  off other people who want them to drink  alcohol who want them to smoke marijuana  i want them to play video games we want  them to live this more more mindless  life and there's this sense in which  watching the videos helps them rehearse  the arguments they need to have again  and again again it lets them be better  prepared uh more eloquent better spoken  when dealing with that conflict so they  kind of watch this to reinforce the  commitment they already have to  reinforce their sense of commitment to  doing the right thing because the right  thing to do and to practice uh going  through the process of explaining that  to a hostile  hostile family members hostile friends  hostile colleagues so you know this is  how i live and this is why and  frankly  there's no need for you to waste your  time trying to trying to change my mind  so yeah  um  i'm not doing this for myself  you know i'm not  and i'm also not doing it for  or sam i'm not doing it for vegan gains  in the case of nicado avocado  i certainly don't have the  the delusion that i could help him  but  you know yes  uh  engaging in this kind of critique it  does help  somebody now i've had to explain this to  other youtubers who were literally  weeping on camera or breaking down  sobbing and weeping on camera  asking me to delete the videos i've made  and where i have to sit here  and say no you know i am not moved by  your personal heartbreak i'm not moved  by your sorrow i'm not moved that this  hurts your feelings you know this is  something really important and really  meaningful and this needs to be on the  internet for everyone who can benefit  from it everyone can see it  and sorry i mean it's extraordinary for  people to get on skype and break down  weeping in front of my eyes on camera  live more commonly i'll get a snide  email or something from a person  indicating how much it's hurt them how  much it's hurt their feelings how  they've broken down  frankly i'd say um the response from tko  sam in particular and the response from  vegan gains in particular it's kind of a  mix of the two types um i've i've heard  tequila sam speaking in his live streams  about how much  this critique has impacted him  emotionally how much this has hurt him  from his perspective  how much it's harmed him right  um  [Music]  well there's a very interesting parallel  between the situation tiki or sam is in  right now  and my pretense as stated that i'm  making these videos i'm engaging in this  performance art  as if i were trying to save his life  there's parallel between that  and the situation of a young man named  laoshu  55 000.  if you don't know who lawsuit 55000 was  you can search within my own youtube  channel you can see my videos about it  um  he is now deceased  there were crazy conspiracy theories on  the internet about what had killed him  uh how and why he'd uh he'd come to his  his final end  the truth is he died of  the number one most common  cause of death in the united states  america the most common cause of  dementia  many other chronic health conditions and  problems he died because of cholesterol  he died because of atherosclerosis  right and then the knock-on effects for  your brain  your body your heart circulation of  blood right he died  frankly because he ate a non-vegan diet  now it's interesting to know that when  he died this he was a popular youtuber  about shoot 55 000. if you've never  heard of him it's fine but he was he'd  have a large audience there were all  these people in his audience creating  crazy conspiracy theories by claiming oh  no it couldn't have been a heart attack  it couldn't have been cholesterol could  have been atherosclerosis  because quote he was vegetarian  close quote  a very interesting example of kind of  mass hypnosis  these people convince themselves that  he'd been a vegetarian all along there  were some youtube videos of him eating a  particular meal in a vegetarian  restaurant where he went to a vegetarian  restaurant  he never was vegetarian he never said  he was vegetarian  and on the contrary if you just listen  to the videos in which he was talking  about his own health problems because  he'd been hospitalized repeatedly before  you know i've just just note a lot of  people they have a heart attack and drop  dead without getting a warning right  he'd had mornings he'd been hospitalized  a couple times but if you'd watch those  videos which he was talking about his  heart problems it was very obvious that  he was someone he was completely  non-vegetarian he was eating deep fried  chicken from fast food restaurants the  nature of his diet  he was slim  he was a good looking slender attractive  guy in case you think he was eating  fried chicken  uh you  know and uh and was hundreds of pounds  overweight like to give sam no  not at all okay well  after laoshu fifty five thousand died  tkyo-san made a couple videos weeping on  camera talking about how they've been  friends how he know him and how how sad  he was to have his his friend die and to  know that he'd never  speak to his friend again okay tell me  something sam  did you do  everything you could  to save his life  here's another way to put it did you do  anything at all  to save his life  did you lift one finger  to save his life no  sorry melissa and i my girlfriend  melissa's off off camera here you know  melissa and i we've both had  friends colleagues family members who've  had serious health problems caused by a  non-vegan diet  and  i normally talk about veganism in terms  of ethics in terms of ecology in terms  of doing the right thing because the  right thing to do but in the context of  this video we're just talking about the  shockingly shallow health side of the  equation the health consequences for  living this way and guys look if we were  talking about drugs and alcohol which we  will just a moment we're going to get  into drugs and alcohol  i think the single most important reason  to be sober to refuse to drink alcohol  has nothing to do with your health right  like the health reasons are relatively  shallow they're relatively but now but  sometimes we get the point we got to  talk just about health you know again  out the refusal to drink alcohol it  comes down to doing the right thing  because it's the right thing to do  comes down to the value of your mental  clarity of your acumen your sharpness  and then what you're going to do with  that  um you know as opposed to living in a  mindless  and adult and distracted state under the  effects of alcohol under the effects of  marijuana so on and so forth but sure  sometimes in some contexts we have to  just talk about the health side of the  art well you know what  sam  you were in a position  to save  laoshu's life  you were  you could have  given him the one piece of advice  that would have saved his life and that  was blindingly obvious after his earlier  hospitalizations or like it's good  advice even if he'd never been  hospitalized but he got that warning  right so you knew what his problem was  you knew what the cost costs were you  knew we were gambling with life and  death and you had a period of several  years  in which you could have said to him  passionately what you need to do is not  lower the cholesterol in your diet you  need to eliminate  cholesterol from diet you need to start  eating a zero  cholesterol diet today zero cholesterol  zero alcohol zero cigarettes  etc  you know and it's not just the  difference between life and death it's  not just that  in bloodshed for a thousand cases that's  it  i mean  in some ways he's lucky  because you can be hospitalized with  mental and physical problems for years  you can be  unbelievable sorrow and suffering and  bankrupt your whole family the united  states of america the cost of medical  care is tremendous he could have been he  could have ended in a much worse way for  him than it did at least he had a sudden  uh death you know  so for some people some of the time it's  going to be the difference between life  and death but for the rest of us most of  us  most of the time right it's the  difference between a life worth living  and a life that's not worth living now  i've already indicated  um  [Music]  by the way some some interesting  comments coming in i'm seeing your  comments come in and i'm happy to reply  to them um just kind of on a roll here  so but i will thanks and if you have a  second hit the thumbs up button and by  all means if you want to comment sooner  or later i'm happy to have you guys uh  join the discussion now look  uh  tko sam  looks like he's gonna be dead within the  next five years right  laoshu 55 000 didn't  outwardly on the surface level he didn't  look like he was about the time next  five years if you knew his medical  history if you knew about those earlier  hospitalizations if you looked at his  blood work as we now say if you looked  at a blood sample and his cholesterol  levels and atherosclerosis it probably  were science but at first glance if you  just looked at a photo of him on  instagram right he doesn't look like  he's going to die in the next five years  okay  henia mania my fellow youtuber  okay do you think henya is gonna be  alive  five years now i don't  i don't  okay  and i made videos trying to help her and  trying to address the problems i mean  she's slender she's not you know it's  nothing it's nothing that obvious  right  has a lot to do with drugs  that story  okay  now a really extreme example it's  already in the title of this video but  it's worth thinking about how about  richard how about vegan gains  you know obviously if you just look at a  photograph he puts on instagram i  believe he's been banned from instagram  so it's hypothetical but you just look  at a still  image of the guy you think oh he's not  so badly off he's doing well for himself  you know whatever he's an amateur  bodybuilder you know he's doing good  yeah you know outright death is one  possibility it's possible all these  people they just won't be alive five  years from now right but it's also  possible they will be trapped in a life  that's not worth living  and a life that they can no longer  escape from they can no longer extricate  themselves from right because the damage  has been done it's so bad they're so so  far gone  and so forth right  so  [Laughter]  point is this sam  right  there was a time  when you could have saved laoshu's life  and you  didn't  okay  now there's more than one reason why  right  it's very hard for you to tell someone  else to drink alcohol  when you're still getting drunk every  weekend  yourself  sorry what did i say  fact-checking department of directors  all right it's very hard to put yourself  in the position of counseling someone  else to completely quit drinking alcohol  to be a complete t-total alert  when you yourself are still drinking  alcohol every week right  it's very hard for someone like tkyo sam  to counsel someone else and say look  you've got to take your health seriously  you have atherosclerosis you have heart  disease and you're already having  consequences because by the way the  blood circulates in your brain the blood  vessels in your brain are much more fine  and delicate than the blood vessels in  your heart you're already having serious  consequences for your cognitive health  your ability to use your brain you're  this is really really serious you have  to get on a zero cholesterol diet which  by the way means a vegan diet  there are only two cholesterol-free  diets one is vegan and you could be a  vegan who drinks honey because honey i  believe has no that's it it's the only  non-vegan  cholesterol so you know you basically  need to adopt a vegan well it's  obviously very hard for tko sam to  preach that when he doesn't practice  what he preaches right when he's he's  not in a position that's that's one  aspect  the other aspect is sam you never tried  to save his life because you didn't care  and these two aspects are linked  it's really [ __ ] hard to admit to  yourself that you don't care if your  best friend lives or dies  and it's even harder to look in the  [ __ ] mirror and admit yourself that  you don't care if you die you don't care  if you're killing yourself you don't  care about your own life or death you  don't care about the consequences for  yourself let alone someone else let  alone your your best friend  all these people um  talk about vegan gains in specific again  i could talk about henya mania again  okay richard  speaking gains his first name  if you had a son  would you want him to be living  the way you're living right now  the excuses you're making for your own  drug habit  would you accept that from your own son  or your own daughter if you were  responsible for a child this excuse is  good enough for you  is it good enough for someone else  someone else hypothetically you you care  about  right hennya again it's very  hypothetical not none of these people  are ever gonna have kids  um  henya if you had a daughter  would you accept these excuses how would  you what would your judgment of your own  daughter be how would you judge her  if she were living the way you're living  now the whole thing the the drugs and  just the lifestyle is it  put together as one one sum total you  know  um  why is it that these excuses are good  enough for you but they wouldn't be good  enough for someone else they're not good  enough for someone you you care about  right now obviously if tko sam had a son  who was living the same way tequila did  of course he would be ashamed  of course he would be but he's not  ashamed  of himself  um i'm gonna read to you an email  think about how your own life would be  different if you if you read every email  you ever got email a sent to someone  that i perceive as a drug addict  but he doesn't perceive himself this way  so i'm just going to use his first name  his first name is adam  but he is a public figure he's  published books he has a website and  when he wrote to me  he was just coming out with his next  book about ketamine  so ketamine if you don't know it can be  in a hospital setting in an emergency  medicine setting a legitimate  painkilling drug used so that people can  go into surgery  however  it's also used as a street drug it's  also used as a recreational drug it's  used as a kind of hallucinogen kind of  hallucinogenic experience  and it's now being marketed as a  therapeutic  recreational drug  it's obviously something i don't  sympathize with and don't believe it  okay but  to be blunt we are talking about people  using ketamine in order to get high in  order to experience a hallucinogenic  state a certain kind of change in their  mood and perception of the world we're  not talking about its use as a  painkiller for  surgery anyway he writes to me i'm not  going to read his whole email but he  writes to me and he opens the first  sentence of his email is that he has  been taking ketamine for four years  so from my perspective he's been a drug  addict  for four years and if you guys haven't  looked into it i know ketamine is not on  the top of the uh rotation on the news  these days ketamine is not talked about  the same way cocaine and  fentanyl and so on are talked about  it's a serious drug it's a serious drug  addiction it is okay  and it brings with it all the tell-tale  signs of drug addiction including  developing tolerance where you need  higher and higher doses to get the same  height  it's a real drug it's a real form of of  drug addiction  anyway he says  adam's first email to me he says that he  does agree with the criticism of  ketamine i've presented in my my videos  that ketamine is not a drug that  actually helps depression that actually  helps solve psychological problems  however he says  quote the cause of most people's  depression is the environment and they  can't easily change this  close quote so he he basically says that  he thinks people have real problems in  real life that they're depressed about  but it's fundamentally easier to just  start using this drug  every day you know  it's easier to get high than to actually  solve your problems in life and as  mentioned he's he's publishing a book  which is basically encouraging people to  be a drug addict like him  you know  so this is my reply i have a couple  emails done but they're pretty they're  pretty brief and they're they're pretty  blunt say to him  [ __ ]  i wasn't happy with my life  i moved to laos  i learned the lotion language  i learned a whole hell of a lot more  than that  what kind of condition was i in five  years later  in what way did i benefit grow or change  from that challenge  take a look at yourself adam  you've got a drug habit you've got brain  damage  and you've got the excuses you've made  for it  where are you going to be five years  from now  dead  you're going to be a brain damaged dried  up pathetic shell of a man  just five years from now like all the  other prescription psych-mad junkies  and what condition could you be in today  if you'd made a very different decision  four years ago and if you'd moved to  laos learned lotion did humanitarian  work did some kind of research etc  what kind of man would you be today  that man  will never exist  it's already game over for you  you're trapped in a living death  and you don't even know it yet  and by the way i do not regard moving to  laos as a positive example  it's a terrible idea and a negative  example  but it's still better than what you've  signed up for  so i'll give you guys the same link that  i included at the end of that email so i  gave him a link to this uh article on my  own blog and i just say uh  i'm being sincere in that final part i'm  not holding myself up as a standard of  excellence saying hey look at what a  great person i am because i went to laos  and did humanitarian work and studied  history and languages and research i am  saying  it was stupid it was a failure  in some ways it ruined my life like in  some ways it was a disaster like in some  ways this is a really negative example  of how to cope with your problems go and  do humanitarian research and learn a new  language right in some ways it really is  and if you click and read that article i  mean you don't have to do it now you  could you can read it later you'll see  i'm not fronting on that i really am  self-critical  and you know i really am very open in  talking about that as a failure in my  life not as a success i'm not you know  presenting success as failure failure  success i'm not misrepresenting strength  as weakness or weakness of strength  but nevertheless you know if you're  really unhappy with your life and you  say  you know  you know you say something's got to  change and you feel as he says that you  can't actually change your environment  i'm saying no you can change your  environment if you want to you can move  to saudi arabia deal with a whole  different set of problems you won't be  tempted by alcohol living in saudi  arabia if you want to you can move to  malaysia or indonesia if you want to  right now you can go to ukraine and sign  up and join the army and fight the war  you can really make a difference in your  life and a lot of those decisions talk  about changing your environment once  you're in ukraine fighting that war a  lot of your decisions are being made for  you right so you know  these really are options i mean i'm not  being snide i'm not being shallow about  it  and  you know drug addiction drug use  self-indulgence it's an understatement  to say it's the easy way out  i mean i think the emphasis i want to  put on it here is not that it's the easy  way out but that it is  the way  out  it is death it is going to be the end of  your life and it's going to be the end  of your capacity to lead a meaningful  life this is going to bring you to a  state where you are locked in a kind of  living death if not just literally dead  it's the way out  easy or not  and look sorry just to reiterate even  though i regard what i did in laos in  cambodia as a failure and it's very sad  like it's it's a personal tragedy for me  not a personal triumph  okay okay okay what did that set me up  to do with the rest of my life once the  tragedy's over right  you lived through that tragedy right and  now here i am now and i get to be this i  get to be the person i am today right  what if i'd spent five years as a drug  addict what if i would spend five years  as an alcoholic binge eater like tko sam  right  okay what what then what do i do with  the rest of my life after that right  like either i'm just gonna die  or it as i say it sets you up for this  kind of living death this unbelievably  you know hard to endure uh excuse for a  life so his his response is telling and  a lot of people in the comment section  not not you wonderful people right now  we have 42 people but now 44 people if  you have a second hit the thumbs up  it'll help more people join the  conversation that's great not your  little people but i do get this kind of  defensive  offensive comment so you're gonna hear  back right now people just try to attack  me you'll see he gets into just  insulting me as if that's gonna solve  the problem like the worst thing you can  say i've had people respond to this kind  of thing by saying like yeah well  you got divorced from your first wife or  something like your your first marriage  yeah  yeah you're still a drug addict i mean  chico sam could do that yo sam could  resp i could totally see that he could  respond to my criticisms of him on  youtube by then making a video like  denouncing  my relationship with mac's wife like put  together a hatchet job on that several  people have already done that on youtube  like trying to make it out that my  divorce or my first wife was some  terrible terrible thing you know  people have tried to create gossip out  of things in my life where there's  really no basis for any gossip but you  know like if you did that like yeah okay  but  at best that's irrelevant now at worst  it really reveals something even darker  about you like this it's not just  irrelevant but  you know like we haven't solved any of  your problems we haven't addressed you  haven't addressed or overturned any of  my criticisms or warnings by in this way  you know denouncing me so on and so  forth  um  okay so just really briefly to aggressor  dequan who's had a lot of good comments  on the channel lately dec one just says  in fairness to sam i don't think he is  an alcoholic his addiction is food i  completely disagree okay i completely  disagree decline so  uh dec one  how many days a week  does sam use caffeine  seven  seven days a week  it's every single day of the week he's  taking massive  doses of caffeine massive right  how many days a week does he drink  alcohol  can you even estimate it it's constantly  being referred to right like any given  live stream you pop in for this thing  alcohol's a huge part of his life  and it's a huge part of his relationship  with women it's a huge part of his  relationship with his own ego it's part  of self-image it's a huge part of his  relationship with food and it's a huge  part of why he lacks the self-discipline  to get any of the outcomes he wants in  life so you know  um  i i just completely utterly disagree  with that now look how you define  alcoholism may be very different for me  i i don't i drink absolutely zero  alcohol i've drank basically since  university i've had zero alcohol but  since my second or third year of  university you know since i was a very  young man i've had absolutely your  alcohol there are people who only drink  on the weekends like so let's say it's  two days a week  and they really are alcoholics they're  sober five days a week and they're drunk  two days a week but that is what their  whole life revolves around now if you  don't know sam only works  one day a week  okay  and he is getting drunk in my opinion  multiple days per week based on what he  says in his own videos that's uh this is  someone in the audience asks has sam  seen your videos yes and he's responded  both in writing and in live streams so  there's quite a lot of evidence of the  of the impacts on him by the way sorry  so amy's if you weren't here at the  beginning of the of the video um i have  already said like i sympathize with the  extent to which this really is  emotionally devastating for people  including emotionally devastating for  sam but that has nothing to do with my  sense of mission and purpose in making  these these videos so i know i know it's  hurt him i know we've seen the videos i  know he's heard the message and i know  it's  i know it's it's harrowing and  devastating from and many people have  demonstrated me i'm gonna be real with  you i feel i've seen  vegan gains and he's not a very  emotional guy but richard vegans  i think i've seen the negative emotional  impact my videos have had on him  i think it really hurts him uh what i  have to say about him and  you know in as much as he's capable of  feeling anything of being hurt i think  this is something that's that's really  very painful for him to hear and to deal  with and a large part of my critique of  them does have to do with drugs again  you know  um  so look a really brief question but i'll  respond to it me says uh i apologize for  touching this but why does sam try so  hard to be funny constantly does he not  realize that he's not funny what's going  on with that so look again these types  of behaviors i think they have  everything to do with alcohol you know  for him  i have that clip of him sitting and  talking to two quote unquote hostesses  two bar girls two women who do this kind  of entertainment bar that's very much  his world is going to a bar  sitting on a bar stool trying to get  positive attention from people both men  and women with these kinds of short  quips in both english and japanese and  that's what his live streams consist of  and he makes a remarkable amount of  money out of doing that in his  livestream so he is getting positive  reinforcement that way and obviously if  you hang out with a bunch of losers at a  bar  you're meeting other people who are  there for that same reason they're there  to get drunk and exchange this kind of  very shallow meaningless uh uh you know  banter so anyway yeah it's a  self-reinforcing uh set of behaviors  okay so i got this reply from adam uh  just considering this email  correspondence which is not long but  it's deep and i think it's relevant to  the sovereignty of this video in many  ways adam writes back and says  dead in five years question mark  let's put a ten thousand dollar bet on  that  all have a lawyer draft the documents if  you're ready to stand behind that  oh what's that an excuse  what makes you think you've done more  than me  burned out youtuber with hardly any  views  nobody needs to move to laos to have a  good life  you've hinted  why that's why you've dumped your  girlfriend many times because she wasn't  living up to your standards  you sound like a miserable person  adam that's the end of his message  so you can see  the there were typos and grammatical  errors in the in the email probably  because he was very upset when he wrote  that  and of course it's completely ridiculous  for him to offer to make a bet uh as to  whether he will be dead or alive in the  next five years and it's intentionally  unintentionally mistaking  the purpose  of of my of my message  and obviously i'm not saying that he  needs to move to laos to have a good  life i think i've already reflect on  this enough so you know let me just  point out this is the kind of response  you typically get if you guys want to  see it i mean i could send you the link  right now again  it's not very interesting  vegan gains has responded to my very  well reasoned well-measured video  talking about his current  antidepressant use i do not think it's  an exaggeration to say antidepressant  addiction  because you build up tolerance and you  go through withdrawal when you quit it  is an addiction to a prescription  medication  vegan gains uh did a live stream  responding to that video and you can see  just how defensive he is  sorry i don't have a better word for it  defensive and offensive you can see him  trying to hurt me trying to attack me he  clicks around with the mouse when i'm in  mid-sentence to make it seem as if what  i'm saying is incoherent if you watch my  video it's completely coherent and he  says oh well what he's saying doesn't  make any sense  um even within the earlier part of the  video where there are slides on screen  there there's text on screen making an  argument then later i'm speaking he's  clicking around trying to make that  incoherent and he's he's really hurt  he's really on he really can't cope with  someone saying to him something as  simple as one of the things he struggles  to deal with is where i say to him  directly  he's misrepresenting his situation he he  uses the passive voice to say that when  he first used the drug it caused  headaches but then later the headaches  went away no headaches don't go away you  developed tolerance to the drug and by  the way he felt the drug wasn't working  and he doubled his dose he increased his  dosage and so on there are all these  things that are completely typical for  developing tolerance to a mind-altering  drug and he can't cope with it he's  sitting there and he's you know all he  can do  is in this same way  insult me uh he he uses the r word as  people now says all he can do is is sit  there and and then sell me  this is the kind of response you get  from the person you're directly  criticizing and i tell you for real like  in terms of my motivation in terms of  what i'm doing this and the way i'm  which i'm doing  i am doing this performance as if  i'm trying to save richard's life  trying to save life again it's trying to  turn his life around i put on this  performance as if  i'm trying to save tko sam trying to  save his life not trying to ruin his  life right  the reality is i know nobody can help  richard nobody can help sam  nobody can help henia mania frankly even  some people who are  further from  outright death um  jacqueline glenn there's no way i can  help jaclyn none  but there are other people in the  audience if it's a few hundred or a few  thousand people there are other people  who are really going to benefit from  this exercise of me behaving as if you  you want to see them  great but she asked can you help johnny  depp  yeah  great question  all right so my next reply to adam goes  his fault so say he has just responded  by  basically attacking and insulting me and  offering offering a 10 000 bet  yeah  my replug was his fault  prove me wrong crackhead  you want to lead a meaningful life  you want to make the world a better  place  it starts with sobriety  it starts with self-discipline  by all means  prove me  wrong  take that manuscript for a pro-drug book  you've written  and burn it  turn your back on all the excuses in the  pages of that book and turn your back on  all the excuses you live by but were too  ashamed to set down in writing  quitting the drug will be easier than  quitting the excuses you've made for it  prove me wrong tough guy  prove me wrong  now  i wish i could say i had any  optimism about adam here who's been a  drug addict for four years solid and his  you know as i say writing a book to  justify it that shows how committed he  is to this form of drug addiction i wish  i could say any optimism about tico sam  richard anya any of these examples  none  i don't think and there's there's from  my perspective there's absolutely zero  chance any of these people will turn  around their lives i'll show you guys  this response i had just to an anonymous  person in the comment section and this  is a very stupid person but whatever  stupid people matter too  um  uh it's still a person even though he's  a stupid person well can i tell you  but i had a comment uh to my most recent  youtube video it was just insulting me  and saying that all i'm doing is virtue  signaling and pretending to be morally  superior uh to the rest of us to the  rest of us mere mortals as he as he puts  in and i write back and i say you know  how you feel when you meet a former high  school classmate who is now a fentanyl  addict living on the street  that's how i feel about you and that's  how i feel about tico sam too  i'm telling you with absolutely no false  humility that i actually am morally  superior to you and that you're inferior  neither by any accident of birth nor due  to circumstances beyond your control  but because of the choices you've made  and choices you're still making  every day and just like your  hypothetical high school classmate who  is now a drug addict i have no reason  whatsoever to think you'll ever improve  you made bad decisions  because you're a bad person  you are the cumulative consequences of  your own actions and to some extent your  decisions revealed who you were all  along  now it's really just the image  of seeing  a former  classmate  as a drug addict on the street that i  really want to invoke here if you see  that you see someone who's that far gone  into drug addiction  is there a zero percent chance they'll  completely quit the drug and get so it's  not zero it's not you know and there are  there are institutions that track those  statistics i've mentioned this many  times in general for many years but i  knew a guy here in canada  he worked at one of those um  special rehabilitation clinics  and when i asked him what was his  success rate  he well i laughed he didn't laugh he sat  there sadly it said zero so i forget  afraid of he said he'd been doing the  job for 15 years or what but he'd been  doing the job for many many years  and his rate of success was zero they  did not have a single example of a drug  addict who would become sober and remain  sober you know the point being some of  them were sober for a couple of months  or a couple of weeks  but they had a 100 rate of these people  returning to drug addiction and  i was laughing because i was saying well  isn't that slightly depressing to do  that kind of humanitarian work like you  know uh when i was doing humanitarian  work in cambodia and laos and these  places you don't we don't have a hundred  percent failure rate like you know any  of the humanitarian projects even the  most unsuccessful ones like i was  involved with humanitarian work uh  dealing with starvation and agriculture  people making enough food you had a  really significant failure rate you did  you do these projects at the beginning  people are starving at the end they're  still starving like for real like you  you know sorry you know it's uh we're  not all angels in the humanitarian  industry but like it's not a hundred  percent failure rate like you know when  you when you're in a form of  humanitarian work where there are  starving people and you hand them sacks  of rice so they have food to eat that is  not going to have a 100 failure rate  so you know no i'm not here saying as an  absolute rule  nobody recovers nobody gets better i'm  saying when you meet that high school  classmate someone you knew  someone you knew well enough  and you see them you go oh  this is who you turned out to be this is  how you ended up and you know them you  know this guy you know derek  you're like that's it there is no com  derek  you know whatever you can talk to him if  you want to you can buy him a sandwich  you know what i mean but you know  there is you know there's no point  there's no point pretending derek is  ever going to change or derek is ever  going to come back and these concepts of  like virtue signaling and moral  superiority they're irrelevant  you actually are morally superior it  doesn't matter you can you can be very  kind and helpful and uh considerate you  can be uh you can take whatever kind of  attitude you want to take you could be  harsh and castigating and reproachable  to derek right you can be kind and  considerate and cognitive there you can  be encouraging and flattering here it's  all on the basis of your moral  superiority right there's no question of  virtue signaling it's just a question of  virtue you have the virtue you have what  it takes to get to life and derek  doesn't that's this this situation  you're in so just say this image of  meeting a former high school classmate  and seeing that they're now a hopeless  drug addict and you have no hope for  them what are you going to do and what  are you going to say and how you can  talk about it something you can do is  come on youtube and make a youtube video  about it that will benefit other people  you can come on youtube and say hey you  know what i met this guy derek today and  i was shocked to see i remember man he  was when he was 16 17 years old and i  see the man he is today and here's where  it's at that could help somebody but you  know  there is no  helping derek  and there's certainly no point  in pretending that you're not  morally superior to derek there's no  point pretending you're equal or that  you're you're so excessively humble that  you just can't see any advantage you  have over derrick no you have what it  takes you have the self-discipline and  positive motivation and so on  you have something derek lacks and that  he's never gonna have if he had it  before he's never gonna have it again  but maybe when you reflect on him even  you know the man he was news teacher  maybe you can now see looking back he  never he never had it there was always  something there's always something  missing there you guys you can imagine a  lot of people in tokyo have gotten in  touch with me  uh since i started making this series  about uh tko sam certainly people who've  known richard for years have talked to  me not like this week but over the years  that i've been criticizing him on on  youtube but within the last few weeks  people have talked to me you've known  tko sam for 10 years  people have talked to me have known tj  sam for more than 10 years some people  talk to me have known him for five years  or two years but people have been  talking to me who've known him and you  can imagine a lot of those people at  first they maybe wanted to have the  attitude like oh he can turn it around  he can get better he can stop drinking  alcohol he can lose weight he can  all this this kind of thing right oh he  can get his act together every day and  then at some point for each of them  right they realize no  he's just a terrible person inside and  out this isn't the equivalent of getting  the measles and then overcoming you can  be a wonderful person and you catch an  illness like the measles it's not your  fault it has nothing to do with you  whether it's a couple weeks or a couple  months then you're back to being your  yourself back to being the good person  you were before you had measles maybe  you're a terrible person while you have  measles some reason you're kind of  crabby or whatever you know  no you know it's not the case that  there's some good person  that tko sam used to be and that he can  go back to being after he recovers from  this fleeting illness there isn't some  kind of inner purity perfect soul inside  richard inside vegan gains that he can  get back in touch with or that he can  revert to being if only he can overcome  his his drug addiction his various  obsessions with uh been  i was gonna say binge eating is close  enough are you guys he has his own  dietary disorders what shall we say uh  his own uh food obsessions about weight  loss and body image and weight gain and  these things you know no there there  isn't some better person they can revert  to being this is who you are  this is all you are  you are the sum  of these bad decisions you've made  there's nothing else you know  there's no there isn't another person  there to be saved from the person you've  become there is only the person you've  become and that would be true of derek  your high school classmate doing  fentanyl on the streets  i'm going to take a minute now to catch  up with your comments guys i appreciate  your comments we have 47 people in the  audience if we could have 47 thumbs up  that'll help people find this video  when it's finished publishing youtube  but also help people join the  conversation right now  if you think i make any money out of  this that's also an interesting topic i  could read to you right now how much  money i've made from each of the tko sam  videos i'm sorry i'll just it would just  take a second but if you think any of  this behavior on my part is motivated by  money or fame you're wrong okay i was  never trying to get rich or get famous  by criticizing richard vegan gaines i  was trying to save his life  knowing it won't work with total  detachment aware that it's not going to  work and i was uh you know making these  videos about tko sam completely aware  that it that it worked but i was  motivated by trying to save this  person's life then you hope there's  someone else  in the audience who really will be saved  or will be helped by and let me just say  something else  something these people have in common  uh tko sam  and richard i'd say henya mania i could  put a lot of other names in this list  too but let's just say  vegan gains and tko sam okay  i was friendly and positive and  encouraging toward them  for  years  before i made youtube videos criticizing  them like in both cases it's probably  about five years guys like you sam has  also mentioned this on his channel he  said that he used to have private  messages to me and he made videos  replying to me like i made a video for  him he made a video talking back to me  and we had we had messages going back  and forth i remember twitter being the  main place we dm'd each other but maybe  maybe some other thing maybe like email  or something too i forget if there were  some other  some other platforms those messages but  we talked back and forth and i was  positively encouraging him you know  throughout so i'll just tell you so i  haven't clicked in all of them just to  take down the load but so uh one of my  tko sam videos i was paid three dollars  and 43 cents  the other one is three dollars and 57  cents  right none of this is motivated by money  guys none of it is all right  it is this sense of really trying to  help others  and even though i know  the particular person i'm criticizing  can't be helped this is my point though  there was an earlier period  when i was talking to them directly and  there was some level of trust mutual  trust mutual respect mutual friendship  when i was hoping what i was saying to  them could help them you know a great  example is um  i remember uh  i remember when richard vegan gains when  he got caught  buying deer meat  to feed to his dog  you know  ridiculous guy was just the most  ridiculous thing so he's a vegan and  he's a vegan activist and he's buying  game he's buying  deer carcasses to chop up this meat and  feed it to his pet dog  and the the ownership of the pet dog is  immoral to begin with it was this whole  crazy saga  and i believe he's deleted all the  videos from that he's deleted all the  traces as with so many other things in  his life you know he covers these things  up afterwards and he lies about them he  really actively lies  on the internet richard anyway i  remember he talked to me about it  and i remember my being so careful in  what i said to him  not because i knew i mean he acts tough  but he's a really fragile guy i knew how  emotionally fragile he was  and i was really being very careful and  saying to him well richard i think you  made the wrong choices and each one of  those decisions  might have made sense viewed in  isolation  but then you make a series of bad  decisions and they you know they're  combined and you look back at them in  retrospect and  you know it's obvious to you you've done  something really bad and evil and wrong  but i remember saying that to him so  carefully  you know that was a private conversation  about that about that issue but you know  um as little as it may help  richard or uh  ving gangs sorry richard or tikiyosam  any of these examples the littles may  help henia mania as little as it may  help jacqueline glenn another good  example right as little as it may help  them  uh for me to denounce them in this very  dramatic  and honest fashion because it's both  it's dramatic but it's also honest what  i do on youtube you know  it would help them even less  to walk on eggshells to be delicate and  mincing and measure your words and to  try to avoid uh hurting their feelings  you know and the message i'm trying to  get across  is to say to jacqueline glenn what you  are doing going wrong i know she's not  going to hear it  she may literally hear right she's not  going to listen to it she's not going to  take an advice somebody in the audience  will someone is going to reflect on the  decisions they've made now if someone is  going to sit there and think wow  i don't actually believe in god  why would i circumcise my own newborn  son this is really messed up that you're  you're carrying on religious traditions  you don't believe them that have really  serious consequences for other people's  individuals for the future of your  country for the future of planet earth  so on and so forth  so i am going to look at the the  comments now babe if you want to if you  want to comment yourself you can jump  into that yeah sure  yeah sure babe is melissa in case you  didn't know yeah  hi  good so something that struck me in  the live stream  was your discussion of how drugs are the  way out  yeah  so one thing that came to mind was  a person came to mind that i knew in  high school i was friends with a  girl in high school and i was also  friends with her cousin and they were  very close in age  so  i eventually was roommates with this  girl that i knew in high school and  uh one time her cousin came over  so i'd known her cousin in high school  and  he was  a nice person i i wasn't that close with  them but  i got to see just his transformation  in just a few years so from when i knew  him in high school maybe when i was 16  to when i was living  on campus at university when i was 19.  uh he got more involved in drugs  and i remember my friend  just  expressing to me how disappointed she  was in her cousin and how she felt  really helpless to change the situation  because she could see him falling deeper  and deeper into drug addiction and where  i grew up heroin addiction was starting  to become a real issue  and uh so he had been  using heroin  and i just really didn't see myself at  all like  that i was in the same kind of position  as him because i didn't ever use hard  drugs and in the culture that i was  raised in cannabis was really seen as a  soft drug and at the time i was using  cannabis  and i i really still thought that we  were on different levels you know like  he was really a drug addict but i wasn't  and you know it is sad for me to reflect  on what you said there  about  you know drugs being  the way out  and um you know me not recognizing that  me wanting to  like create this kind of gulf between me  and people who are using more serious  drugs  um  unfortunately he uh  he overdosed and and died  a couple years after i saw him  and now i have to reflect on just  it's it's true what you say you know  that you didn't care like i didn't care  enough to  to talk to him about it to say you know  say anything  say you're ruining your life and you're  living a living death where whether  you're able to accept that or realize  that  and  there's been multiple  overdoses  from from people from my high school  that i knew that um you know it's just  i've had that experience where i've had  to reflect that i didn't care and i  wasn't even you know connected to them  enough to  feel like i had any kind of  responsibility to to change their lives  to save their lives  and yeah no i just that that was  something that crossed my mind and um  you know uh  now it's been five years that i've been  sober  and um five years ago that i stopped  taking antidepressants i understand it's  controversial to say you know yes  addicted to antidepressants  but it's  it's a mind-altering medication it's a  mind-altering drug  and well i think i think you should take  it seriously i think all these examples  uh  what one of the things they have in  common  is that there are forms of addiction  people do not perceive as addiction  like sorry we had a sincere comment from  that i know this guy's well intentioned  he's not you know  not saying this with any bad intentions  but someone's saying that they don't  think tko sam's problem is alcohol of  course it is  of course it is and like the other  contradictions in his life  would become unbearable and  unsustainable if he didn't have the  alcohol right like just think if he had  to live with constant lucidity and  clarity if he had no alcohol in his life  how everything else would be different  every conversation with a friend what he  does every weekend what he does in his  spare time like you know what i mean all  these things how he feels about himself  how he thinks about himself and yes  indeed his binge eating it is very  powerfully linked alcohol he gets drunk  now also one of the things he likes to  lie about is his use of nicotine  cigarettes once he drinks alcohol then  he allows himself to indulge in  unlimited amounts of nicotine food  so on and so forth so it's in terms of  the cycle of his binge eating that alone  it is an addictive behavior both in  relation to food and alcohol but what i  was drawing attention to here is this  um it's possible for people to not  perceive tico sam as a as an addict at  all right like  because it's not heroin and it's not  cocaine right and it's possible for  people to perceive prescription drugs  as not an addiction at all but it is an  addiction to to a mind-altering drug  that's right and it it and you know to  me it's even more worrying to see the  extent to which people are now willing  to perceive marijuana  hashish whatever form of cannabis  they're willing to perceive marijuana as  not an addiction to a mind-altering drug  it is nothing else that's what it is  it's it's a sedative it's a sedative  addiction you know being addicted to  sleeping bills is different from being  addicted to stimulants you can be  addicted to both simultaneously by the  way but it is still a drug addiction as  a mind-altering mood-altering drug  addiction uh period and yeah you know  it's look i understand that something  like methamphetamine  the effects are so extreme  that i understand why people would then  not perceive anything else as a real  addiction compared to methamphetamine  right like oh yeah like this is so  dramatic it's so extreme but guess what  alcohol just alcohol is a really serious  final three drug it's a really serious  addiction and yes you know ssri  antidepressants that if you go through  the checklist of what is an addictive  drug in that same video from vegan gains  the video where he's talking about is  his antidepressant news he talks about  the extreme panic he's in if he has to  go one day without these drugs if for  some reason he can't get the medication  or he you know he goes on a trip or  moves or if he doesn't have that  constant supply of pills that he goes  into a total crisis of withdrawal or  whatever you want to want to say the  only one  this look you can go through the  checklist what is addictive behavior  what is drug addiction what is  dependency okay you have increasing  tolerance you know you can go through  the check you have all you have all the  check marks you know the fact the fact  that it's not methamphetamine the fact  that it's not cocaine you know that  doesn't mean it's not serious let's  point this out also it doesn't mean it  won't kill you it doesn't mean it won't  ruin your life again  objectively how much cholesterol did  laoshu 5500 eat versus how much  cholesterol does stick yo sammy right  like the other question is is your  ability to cope with the damage which is  just genetic it's just unfair right like  i think it is impossible that laoshu ate  more cholesterol than tokyo sam but  laoshu's dead  right it was enough to kill him  right how much alcohol you can tolerate  like how well you cope with  alcohol it's genetic and it's totally  unfair  so guys i'm irish i'm a mixture of  scottish irish eastern european jewish  like i've got you know i actually think  i'm born with very good uh alcohol i  drink zero alcohol i don't lean on it  you know what i mean  um  anyway you know uh  yeah different people are are born with  a different capacity to endure the  damage the damage is real in either case  and guess what you might not be so lucky  and your luck might run out like the  fact that marijuana is a softer drug  than  methamphetamine  doesn't mean you can cope with it it  doesn't mean it won't ruin your life and  it won't ruin your character you know  and the fact that someone else can cope  with  occasional use of alcohol doesn't mean  tko sam can doesn't mean he can't  doesn't mean it doesn't mean you can't  you know so you want to say that well  the other thing that was was really  striking to me that goes against what  i've seen online is the the general  trend is that we all deserve love we all  deserve  respect basically just for who we are  and  your  philosophy on this is is really that you  are just  the combination of all the decisions  that you've made and when i think of the  difference between me and my friend who  died of heroin overdose you know  what is what is the difference  it it feels a bit uh unnatural for me to  say i had the virtue to  live  to  not just  live a living death until i died you  know right be waiting to die and and  also you know just  just this not feeling ashamed of your  life like  in a sense i would feel ashamed of  myself and and eventually you know i did  feel ashamed and  i mean even at the time i wasn't uh you  know when i did use cannabis it was like  i wasn't flaunting it i wasn't proud of  it  so yeah i guess  i just want to say briefly you know  before you made the change before you  made the decision to quit marijuana  entirely and quit antidepressants  entirely you first had to be unhappy  and you had to recognize that you were  unhappy and you had to think about why  you weren't happy yeah but just point  out that state it could be a few minutes  it could be a few days but it could be a  few hours or a few weeks that  unhappiness is  part of the problem part of the process  and even for my example of me moving to  moving to laos and learning lunch during  your life right well they're first  there's a recognition  yes no i mean i i just so let's let's  not denigrate that misery let's not  denigrate that unhappiness if what i'm  saying makes tko sam unhappy which it  does we've seen it we know we know it's  hurt his feelings if what i say makes  richard unhappy and hurts his feelings  what i say makes henya mania unhappy  what i say makes aaron janis unhappy all  these are examples we know i know it  hurt and yeah what i had to say about  her too  well guess what  that unhappiness that sorrow that's  actually a prerequisite for you to make  those decisions to lead up to that yeah  no i think that's so important too and  the  really what what he thinks says um okay  the sorry uh let me just be more  specific the email correspondence that  you had with the man who was writing  spoke about that i mean which haven't  finished it but going on yeah  okay good sport  uh  you know that is actually quite evil his  suggestion is because you can't change  your lifestyle because right now  everybody has their own  life and what what all of you  using components so you're saying this  in a modern way so that really is what  people call dumerism  so the assumption is  you're unhappy because your life is bad  but you can't change that  therefore you're going to do  whether that's drugs or whatever else  you know and look you can even scale  this up your political situation is bad  you live in saudi arabia or you even  live in california you're like oh well  you know i have no control i have no way  to change my political circumstances no  way to change the society  yes you do right but as soon as you  accept that first premise i can't change  my own life or on a larger scale i can't  change lives millions of you know  therefore almost any evil imaginable can  be justified with that therefore whether  it's cocaine or or otherwise okay but  therefore a life of self-indulgence no  no i agree with you completely and  that's thank you for being clear with  that i i totally appreciate the you know  i'm not trying to be modeled about it  really the main point that i'm trying to  make is  uh i can see  you know even though you're talking  about different people i can see how  what you said applies to even my my uh  disappointment with my life what was  making me so depressed when i was 17 18  19  if i had instead of using cannabis  instead of you know right drinking  alcohol it wasn't it wasn't if you'd  been motivated to do it do something  have some ambition make some balls  change right  city hall you know right  changing the world in some way oh sure  and like my examining an adult and like  my example of laos so like my example of  laos even if it had been a really  pathetic political cause you get got  involved with  yeah uh black lives matter or something  i'm a pretty harsh critical black person  even if it had been a kind of stupid  failure of a political movement still  you would have had positive growth  through that in a way that the drugs  yes  in contrast to the drug the main thing  that i want to say the parallel and that  struck me is that  that person that i was six years later  um  you know  i can't get back that person was before  or the opportunity that i had to to  become another person if i would have uh  instead of you know  accepting this oh i can't change my life  or i can't like no you really can i  didn't have to you know continue  university if i was unhappy with my  university i could have you know like  you said it could have traveled  somewhere and you know  live somewhere you know humanitarian  work yeah there were there were  hundreds of different options that i  could that i just didn't even you know  contemplate and  yeah and look you know  i just want to say it's very so good  but you know um  i am serious when i'm saying it's not  just your own life you can change  right like uh  look at alexandria ocasio-cortez what's  special about her so she's changed the  lives of millions of others by the way i  despise  aoc i'm not a fan of hers but my point  is look at aoc's life what do you think  makes her so special i always forget  this guy's name the filmmaker from flint  michigan  look at michael moore  what makes michael more special he's  changed millions of people's lives right  like yeah you can change your own life  you can also change other people's lives  maybe a few dozen people's lives i just  wrote a book  i already know it's changed people's  lives a few days after publishing it  will it change a hundred people's lives  will change a thousand people i have no  reason to think i'll change a million  people's lives but sure you can change  other people's lives not just  your own you know i just want to mention  this briefly to you here so  several complex ideas were were touched  on by by melissa um  in her contribution this discussion you  know i had a short quotation from  another youtube channel recently  i was talking about video games  and  the guy said  if your excuse for playing video games  is that  elon musk  plays video games  well so what  and what he said was you are not him  like you are not an incredibly  accomplished person like elon musk so  therefore you have to take seriously  your own education your own ambition  your own self-discipline every hour of  your life matters maybe in a way that  elon musk doesn't like once you become a  multi-millionaire or something again  okay so my perspective is actually much  darker than that okay so elon musk does  play video games and i've had i've had  clips of him here on youtube proving  that he he spends a huge amount of time  please do not just an hour here or there  i can't say he's a video game addict i  just don't know that but i've seen him  listing off the names of video games  that he's played from beginning to end  where he's completed the game he says  that and you can look up how many hours  that takes so it's like okay so the  minimum number of hours you played that  game 40 hours 80 hours 60 hours you can  start putting it together this is a guy  who spent a large percentage of of the  hours in which he's awake and alert as  an adult playing video games okay  i think there's a better person elon  musk could be today  if he didn't play video games with that  time i think it matters even for me it  matters for you it matters for me it  matters to everyone but like when you  look back at the last five years of elon  musk's life obviously we look back at  the last 50 years sorry i don't know  hold this last 30 years  whatever but if you look back at just a  period of time it's easier to visualize  like five years you think what if he had  smoked  zero marijuana what if he had drank zero  alcohol  what if he had played zero video games  he would be a better person today and i  don't know what he would have done with  that time maybe he would have read a  book you know i i you know maybe he  would have learned something maybe you  know like whatever but even if he had  just sat there feeling unhappy with his  own life and thinking about his own  ambitions he and he obviously has  tremendous power and wealth he could  have made a bigger difference in the  world in many different ways so it's in  that sense that i'm inviting people  whether you're tico sam or vegan gains  or whoever else to really reflect on  this stuff you know because i you know  none of the excuses make sense to me not  even on that on that level that you're  sort of so successful or what have you  uh you know  all right so we've got a lot of a lot of  contributions here shout out to peaches  fernandez so it's your first time i  think commenting on the channel i'd  remember that name if you'd if you'd  been here before  so look uh a couple of interesting  comments here  people saying that sam tico sam does  have some redeeming qualities of course  he does  you know so you just point out that he  did manage to learn japanese that he  someone points out that he managed to  learn to play guitar  i've never seen him play guitar enough  it's debatable he's good at japanese and  therefore he has some self-discipline  some work ethic he's also been a  kindergarten teacher so on and so forth  look we could list off the positive  qualities richard has vegan gains has or  um  yeah or elon musk or  jaclyn glenn or or anyone else right  your friend from high school derek  the point isn't that he never had any  positive qualities right  point is you know there's just just one  fetal flaw just one mistake  just one bad decision can ruin your life  just one bad decision can end your life  right that's what we're dealing with  so you know he may have he may have  other radium inequalities he may be a  good person in some other way right but  exactly what we're addressing here is is  the way in which you bad person to be to  be blunt and that's  sufficient to  ruin his life and to ruin many other  people's lives as well  you know  yes so peach's comments i take it  peaches has watched quite a few hours of  sam's content because this is true uh  peaches says quote sam needs to be the  center of the universe he's extremely  jealous of others whom he perceives are  better than he is  um  that's why he's made this long series of  videos denouncing criticizing others and  then there's certainly an irony in that  he's now so uncomfortable about and so  defensive about my criticism of hit and  my criticism of him is really well  intentioned as i've already described  exactly my intentions his criticism of  many other people is not  well-intentioned um  and it is as he states himself it's part  of his own quest to to become rich and  famous he stated his intentions very  clearly again and again and again um  you know we've made many videos on this  channel you know me and my girlfriend  together talking about  jealousy  jealousy is many things it's not i mean  it's really a very complex cultural  concept  um  but i do think one element of jealousy  is just distraction  it gives you a distraction from yourself  gives you a distraction from who you  really are from what's what's wrong with  you and what it is you need to  accomplish  and i mean that like partly on a kind of  shout level you could have a lot of  homework to do like you have to write an  essay  and exercising this part of your mind of  kind of a malicious fantasies about  others  jealous  fixations  it is a type of daydreaming it's a type  of distraction  even just from something as simple as as  needing to write an essay for school or  something like that  um  so you know for sam  why is he so jealous  um  i would say that's that's a significant  part of the problem  we have several people insisting that uh  um  sam is actually quite poor in speaking  japanese well so i have studied japanese  i'm aware of what a hard language it is  um i think a lot of the praise for sam  this was also the case with daniel uh  the youtuber known as hiding in my room  a lot of the praise is because in his  first year or first two years or so  he learned japanese so rapidly but to my  knowledge he started learning japanese  at age 18 from his account so already  when you're looking at videos when he's  21 he said quite a few years studying  japanese but anyway there was at least  the illusion that when he was say 21  that he all of a sudden had learned  japanese to a high level  but you know  14 years later 15 years later right now  it's not so impressive anymore so i just  say that the expectations for what level  you should be at uh keep going up and up  um  i i think you can tell i'm not um  i'm not insulting him on this on this  score but you know exactly what he's  done with his life and his his time and  energy he hasn't been developing himself  to higher and higher levels of japanese  but no anyway i wouldn't say his  japanese is terrible  but now people are evaluating him as a  36 year old man who started learning  this language when he was 18. so the  standards he's evaluated by are now  incredibly high and unforgiving whereas  sure when he was 21 people were  impressed that he could he could say  anything at all in this language so i  think that's a common pattern and by the  way if you're a middle-aged person as i  am guess what no matter how well i speak  spanish nobody's going to be impressed  when you're in your 40s it's like why  aren't you completely fluent in spanish  i've only been studying spanish for two  weeks well you know nobody doesn't  matter so the standards are helped you  get higher and higher as you as you get  older generally  so dec one says and i know deck one's  joking right here oh but tko sam said  that balocial was trying to get views  out of this  yeah so look i do not use this this  concept of projecting psychological  projection  very often i think it's a really hacky  overused  phrase  in the 21st century and it's just used  very sloppily but in the narrowest sense  of the term the most the strictest  definition of psychological projection  sam does a lot of psychological  projection and certainly his  denunciation of me  a lot of it really sounds like an  indictment against himself so yeah i  would have to uh  agree with that and the put it this way  the motivations he ascribes to me are  exactly the motivations that he openly  flagrantly states are his own  motivations but they're not mine  you know it's just you know i remember  him denouncing me so this is a couple  days ago or a couple weeks ago now but  it's not that long ago i remember him  denouncing me saying that the point of  my videos was just to brag that i'm the  one having all the sex  and that he doesn't  have any sex  a lot of your videos sound like that sam  i've got to say like that sounds like a  description of your act  not mine  but look uh i i can make a separate  short video just saying this but sam if  you're watching i want to say straight  to your face  how many women  have you slept with  this year  calendar year 2022  okay i think the answer is zero  i think during the year 2022 the real  honest answer is zero that you have been  living in celibacy that you are an incel  i know you hate being called that term i  know you've seen videos of you lashing  out at others because i dare to say that  now i want to ask 2021  what's the real number sam you're so  full of boasting  and your boasts are partly based on lies  and partly based on exaggerations and  they're partly just based on you telling  stories about things that happened 14  years ago as if they happened the day  before yesterday that you once met this  girl and blah blah blah but yeah that  was more than 10 years ago and when you  were more than 100 pounds thinner you  know  and and dude trust me i'm skeptical even  those stories those stories about things  that happened more than 10 years ago i'm  skeptical as hell about what sam claims  about his sex life but sam why don't we  get some real honesty from you with no  ambiguity about what your sex life has  been like in the last one year in the  last two years in the last five years  the reality is sam that you are a  failure  by your own standards you're also a  failure by mine that's why i'm talking  about this you're you're a terrible  person by my standards but you're a  failure even by your own standards and  that's what you've got to be dealing  with you know so yeah the extent to  which he lies about himself and lies to  himself uh that's ultimately why these  videos are are being created  um  so there's a great quote comment here  from uh  from dequan dekwan says quote the messed  up part is i actually don't hate sam i  just wish he was a better person because  he has moments of clarity and brilliant  observations  peaches says quote  i don't hate sam either but he's proven  himself to be everything that could be  wrong with a person all rolled into one  and regardless of who tries to reach him  it just ends with him denouncing that  person and calling them a troll he can't  take any any posters yeah okay close  close girl from from peaches  um  look  how do you feel  when you see your former high school  classmate on the sidewalk as a fentanyl  addict as a meth addict  as a cocaine addict when you see that  someone you used to know  maybe someone used to like or be friends  with is now just a hopeless  drug addict  okay  you probably don't hate them  right hatred is just probably not the  feeling is there  you you also certainly don't feel  jealous or envious toward them and it is  completely hilarious that that sam's  claim about me in particular  and about you people like you in the  audience decline and peaches  his claim is that we're jealous of him  his claim is that we're doing this out  of envy  that this is the most  pathetic  psychological projection of them all  so a little bit more discussion here  about the extent to which alcohol is the  problem  as opposed to alcohol merely being a  minor part of the problem so look what i  have to say about alcohol  it's it's very similar to what i have to  say about video games so guys i i know  alcohol  i grew up with alcohol i quit but it's  not a strange drug to me it's not hard  for me to understand the effects of  alcohol okay  um  how many hours of the day  are you really awake alert focused and  intellectually productive for  if you have a martini with lunch if you  have one cocktail  with lunch  how many hours the day are you really  awake and alert for and for most of us  you know it's not just one martini we're  talking about no but that's drinking at  lunch that's one of the most depressing  ways to drink alcohol because you feel  it like you you feel  like if you don't drink any more that  evening you feel the effects of the  alcohol you feel your body fighting  against it and you feel your mind  clearing like it's not quite a hangover  but you feel your mind struggle to get  back to normal function as it recovers  it's really depressing what most people  like is to drink at night and to drink  and drink and drink until they pass out  so they don't have to go through that  sobering up process being awakened alert  they want to just roll on until they  crash right  okay so that's one day where you have  one drink with lunch and then think  about your total intellectual  productivity during the day okay  what if it's just one night a week where  you stay up until four in the morning  drinking and carousing you know  it's a huge impact in your life there's  the number of hours you lose that day  that night there's the number of hours  you lose the next day and the day after  that  so no i'm sorry i just don't buy this i  don't think you can go out drinking the  way sam does look i'm being real with  you  [Music]  how am i going to say this  you know  the greatest intellectuals in the  history of the world the most  accomplished writers the most  accomplished scientists  the the most accomplished leaders in war  all right  the vast majority of them drank alcohol  it's very easy to grow up with the  illusion that they weren't negatively  affected by it at all yes they were  and what you're not letting yourself  imagine is how they could have  accomplished so much more if they could  have just stopped drinking when you add  up the number of hours and the number of  days and the number of years  alcohol is a huge gap  in their lives now you may be you may  think of yourself as a mentally strong  person you may think yourself as a  mentally weak person as a susceptible  person susceptible to addiction or  having but i am really saying to you no  matter how strong you are no matter how  brilliant you are no matter how  extraordinary your intelligence this is  a huge huge negative impact on your life  even if it is just that you had a couple  of beers with lunch or if it's just one  day a week that you're going out and  drinking the whole night long  i'm sorry i you know i i certainly don't  buy it for sam you can see the effects  of alcohol on salmon in every way  including his ego including his  relations with women including his binge  eating including the loss of discipline  and loss of focus right but like again  even if it just comes down to books like  well if you weren't playing video games  maybe you'd read this this incredibly  boring book you know a boring but  historically important book you know  um maybe you'd be reading maybe you'd be  learning etc etc  well with alcohol it goes a lot further  than just that i mean the effects  there's the direct effect like that the  loss of time that you could have been  reading you could have been learning but  i think there are also much more complex  emotional effects of uh dependence upon  alcohol to to to make you happy so on  and so forth  so yeah and we have someone in the  audience saying that he's he is sober  partly thanks to these videos so again i  won't repeat myself but i do think  that's part of the effect of this  a lot of the these discussions they  reinforce the commitment people have  people who are already committed to be  sober already committed to not play  video games that they become more  committed and they kind of become more  articulate  in expressing why they're sober or why  they don't play video games uh to others  in their lives because you have to face  off against that kind of pressure all  the time okay i'm going to return to  this correspondence i have with this guy  named adam  um  he replied to me  um my my last email ended with saying  prove me wrong a tough guy proved me  wrong and we've just digressed to say a  great length  there is no hope in my heart that tkyo  sam will ever prove me wrong there's no  hope in my heart that richard vegan  gains will ever prove wrong there's no  hope that henya henya mania will ever  prove with all three of those people  i literally think it is just a matter of  time until i get that email telling me  that they are dead  i don't think it's gonna be that much  time okay  when that day comes  i will come here on youtube and say  i did everything i could  to save them  did you  it's the same [ __ ] i have to say to tko  sam in reference to laoshu 55 000 right  laoshu died  you didn't try to see them you didn't  try to help i knew you were going to die  i tried to save you you know  it's not an exaggeration to say this in  relation to richard or henya mania  either this is life and death and then  as i say one step further apart from  just whether or not you're actually  buried is the question of whether or not  you're trapped in a kind of living death  or if you know  you have a life that's meaningful  rewarding and worthwhile okay so adam  wrote back to me and said quote zero  conviction can't even take a simple bet  i thought you were so sure tough guy ten  thousand dollars let's go see he's again  insisting on this ten thousand dollar  i say back to him  reread the first message i sent to you  in this correspondence  are you aware of the extent to which you  missed the point  are you aware of the extent to which you  intentionally or unintentionally ignored  the entire substance and thesis of the  message to instead try to bully me with  the offer of a wager that i'd never  suggested nor entertained  so i quote myself back quote take a look  at yourself adam you've got a drug drug  habit you've got brain damage and you've  got the excuses you've made for it  quote you're going to be a brain damaged  dried up pathetic shell of a man just  five years from now like all the other  prescription psych mad junkies  and what condition could you be in today  if you'd made a very different decision  instead four years ago and you'd moved  to laos learned laosh and done  humanitarian work did some kind of  research etc what kind of man would you  be today that man will never exist  it's already game over for you you're  trapped in a living death and you don't  even know it yet  close quote  do you think the point of that message  was to challenge you to a bet  you're seeing only what you want to see  you're ignoring what you want to ignore  and you think you're winning  uh  i then have a quote sorry then i have a  link to one of my blogs i'm guessing  it's a blog that's just  stating the same correspondence yeah it  is  i can give you that link too you might  have someone your life for this email  correspondence  you might have someone in your life is a  ketamine addict sadly  do you want to be so i'm continuing here  my email adam do you want to be the pied  piper  leading people even more pathetic than  yourself into drug addiction  do you want to encourage others to  embrace the pseudo-scientific and  pseudo-philosophical excuses you've made  for yourself  you've probably met enough of those  people face to face to realize just what  it limited intellectual and emotional  capacity they've got  you're aware of how eagerly they'll  embrace any promise or any excuse made  for what they construe as happiness  now this is directly relevant  to why i'm criticizing tko sam today and  why i'm criticizing vegan gains today  these people are for an audience of  thousands  they are doing exactly this they are  playing the role of a pied piper leading  people who are even more pathetic to  themselves right and helping them to  embrace as i say here any promise or any  excuse made for the things  they want to justify the things they  construe is giving them happiness what  is the significance of vegan gains for  his audience he's showing you  that you can own a whole bunch of action  figures from dragon ball z  and still be a cool guy like me  you can you can own action figures and  you can still read anime and manga and  you can play video games for eight hours  a day you can live this life that  richard exemplifies right  like that that's what he's championing  that's what he's being a pied piper for  right that's what people are responding  to positively and sure some of them  maybe also they want to um  they want to combine that with the image  of kind of toxic masculinity of  weightlifting and bullying and  aggression and and so on and so forth it  looks right at the at the other end of  the scale someone like jacqueline glenn  she's also a pied piper for a very  different particular lifestyle i'm just  saying it's less it's less  odious at first glance but you know  she's representing something and people  people room that makes them happy they  want to latch onto that and those are  the excuses they want jacqueline glenn  endorsing  um ayahuasca use jaclyn glenn endorsing  antidepressant use so on and so forth  it's a different bunch of drugs right  she's a pied piper from movement and  this is exactly what i see with the fan  base tyco sam has right there are people  who want to believe in the excuses made  for this kind of lifestyle for this for  this kind of uh happiness  and as i've said before in videos it's  fundamentally a childlike and childish  happiness and none of these people are  just willing to [ __ ] say  the point of these comic books was to  provide entertainment for children so  they could develop  basic literacy that's what these comic  books exist for and then you were  supposed to move on  as a 30 year old man you were not  supposed to be reading these comic books  anymore now look i hate disney movies i  hate pocahontas look up pocahontas on my  channel you'll see but like the best  rationalization or justification i can  offer for garbage like the pocahontas  movies by disney is that it's there to  help children develop these first few  steps of you know  intellectual sophistication reading  comprehension reading ability thinking  about  love and romance in this very simple way  the point was not for you to collect  pocahontas dolls when you were a 30 year  old man the point was not for you to  watch that same movie again and again  again the point was not for you to keep  reading those same comic books or  watching those same cartoons into  adulthood like you know whatever value  this kind of pop culture crap has the  value is not in picking it up and  carrying it with you the value is in  putting it down  and you know seeking out and grasping  onto something something better so yeah  they're all  cheerleaders for they're all playing the  role of the pied piper for this kind of  perpetual childishness endless childhood  endless self-indulgence right  never growing up  that's  and look guys how many youtubers are  exceptions to that like this is a huge  aspect of social media in every way even  instagram you know permanent vacation  permanent childhood perpetual  self-indulgence forever and ever and  there's no point and it never ends  hey guys i bought a new purse hey guys i  bought a new  action figurine whatever it is they  collect whatever is their mass  you know and and there's no direction  there's no purpose there's no meaning to  it right it's just self-indulgence  forever and ever and ever and then one  day you die  right  and you know several of the people  who've gotten in touch with me who are  like former friends of tkyo sam because  of sam all of them did okay sam if  you're like  but you know i believe my videos reached  like all 30 people in tokyo who know sam  and used to be his friends and now  aren't his friends anymore and yeah  sam i don't know if they told you or not  the people who are currently your  friends have gotten in touch with me too  and that's that's not that many people  you know  um  and i think without exception i think  every single one of those people who god  touched me they recognize that what i'm  doing is like an attempt to help sam  it's like an intervention whatever say  but it can't possibly work like you know  there's no way this is going to impact  him positively he'll only respond in a  you know in a childish and  negative way  and i forget  for once i've lost my train of thought  um  some comments from the audience here  yeah so peaches says sam will not change  he has no rock bottom maybe none of us  do you know  i mean no i mean what what is what is  rock bottom that things get so bad that  you know you don't have to have your own  positive ambition that something  negative in your life can play the can  can supply the role of what slang  positive is supposed to be  you know um  you know i think in this sense rock  bottom doesn't exist like you know you  do you do the right thing for the right  reason either you have a positive  ambition a positive motivation  uh to change or you don't and you're not  going to get the the positive motivation  from something negative you know you  have to have a real aspiration to be a  better to be a better person be a better  man however you want to put it  um  yeah anyway sorry guys whether that was  a digression or whether that it's in  some ways the main point of the video  you know i do feel that i'm out here  really representing  a meaningful life and the meaning of  life i'm saying to people you can live a  better life you could be a better person  and here's how  and here's what it entails and here are  the implications  and right sorry  where i lost my train of thought was  just i was saying that you know the  people who know him right now in tokyo  you know had been getting in touch with  me and one of the things i end up saying  to those people is look  you're not fat  but like ninety percent of what i have  to say  about tiki or sam applies to you  like i don't know why you think i'd be  your buddy or your friend or something  like okay so you hate tkyo sam  or you used to be his friend or whatever  your situation is right you're not 400  pounds like you don't know those health  problems but guess what from my  perspective  right you're you're basically just as  terrible a person as tko sam and my  criticism of him a huge percentage of it  applies to you and they also are people  who are engaged in you know  as i'm putting in this video being a  pied piper for leading followers who  want those excuses who want to cling on  to that that childlike and childish  model of of happiness you know and yes  sometimes it's something as obvious as  drugs sometimes something is obvious  it's alcohol  and you know and sometimes it's not  um  sometimes it's hard to put your finger  on exactly what the fantasy is that  vegan gains is selling or that chico sam  is selling uh so on and so forth but  this is it's a huge percentage of i mean  uh tennomo show  think about the lifestyle tana mongeau  is really in effect selling and think  about the i was going to say young women  but it's probably middle aged women now  think about the middle aged women who  are watching that and saying yes you go  girl  uh what great example is hitomi  i mean you can absolutely see the type  of woman who fastens on to itomimo  suzuki and they think that's  again really at this point it's probably  not teenagers it's probably middle-aged  women that's the kind of life they want  to lead that's the kind of  self-empowerment they're interested in  but they're they're fascinating onto  social media influencers who  [Music]  justify  and and give the veneer of  respectability to  you know  fundamentally childlike and childish  self-indulgence going on forever right  now  permanent vacation  perpetual self-indulgence endless  pointless aimless childhood  so to finish my my email to  adam here  i say  you realize that many thousands of  people if not millions will become  passive victims of the process you're  trying to benefit from as an author and  that others will make thousands of  dollars if not millions as gurus and  therapists  i don't want you to gamble  i don't want you to place a bed  i don't want you to risk your life  i don't want you to lose your life  i want you to do the right thing  because it is the right thing to do  period  now i think the shallowness and  stupidity of his answer to that is worth  reading and i've made many videos  talking about this probability is  often a misleading concept right why  should you eat a vegan diet  the probability that you'll have a heart  attack can't be the answer right like  yeah it's you can talk about the odds of  having a heart attack now the  probability's improved okay if you eat a  hamburger there is a 100 chance that a  cow was born on a concrete floor and  lived its whole life in a metal cage  under a sheet iron roof in a concrete  shed and then had its throat slit like  the sorrow and suffering and misery and  filth and ecological damage of that cow  and its mother living their whole lives  in that concrete shed okay  it's not a matter of probability that's  a matter of 100  certainty you know  the harm you're doing right you have to  be vegan for the right reasons right it  can't be on a probabilistic business but  notice what i'm saying here i don't want  you to gamble i don't want you to bet  ten thousand dollars on whether you're  gonna live or die five years i don't  want you to place a bet i don't want you  to risk your life i don't want you to  lose your life i want you to do the  right thing because it's the right thing  to do i'm saying that to him but i'm  this whole person i think there's a zero  percent chance he's gonna do the right  thing i'm i'm saying this to him so that  i can now share it with you because  maybe there's someone in the audience  here for whom this is useful as raw  material as fuel maybe you are going to  be the person to figure it out and do  the right thing because the right thing  to do maybe one person  out of 5 000 who watches my videos about  tiki or sam will sit there and realize  wow i'm being really self-indulgent and  childish and apart from the question of  having a heart attack they've got to  wake up and really become you know  morally and uh politically a better  person like maybe someone will respond  to the deeper message those videos it's  not going to be tko sam  and you know no offense but like  the other people  in tokyo who got in touch with me tko  sam's friends and friends and so on all  those people from my perspective you're  all scumbags too like the message is  there for you and you write like these  people writing to me  and fronting like they're so superior to  tico sam just because he's fat and  they're thin well you're the same in  every other [ __ ] way yeah you play  the same video games you probably sleep  with the same prostitutes you know i'm  sorry but you are living the same  lifestyle you're literally getting drunk  at the same bar  you're doing the same drugs this is you  know it's  these are english teachers in tokyo  trying to get famous on youtube you have  everything else in common with tkyo sam  expect pardon me you have everything  else in common with tko sam except his  obesity except his being overweight so  you know and those people are writing to  me like like we're going to do a victory  lap together like we're on the same team  no we're not  but you know maybe one of those people  maybe someone not one of maybe someone  is going to get the messages from those  videos and be like whoa you know i've  got to start asking myself some  difficult questions and coming up with  some new answers okay so here's adam's  response to that that email  um  bully you question mark you're the one  attacking me  i tried to have a conversation with you  and you go at homina  i'm done with this conversation go  stroke your ego somewhere else  narcissist  you don't know any languages you don't  have any educational achievements and  you try to make up for it by bullying  other people to make yourself feel  better  and you have no friends  which is probably the saddest thing of  all  that's the end of his  has emailed me right  now look guys if all of that were true  like if these weren't lies if these were  weren't insult  how does that help you homie  how does that how does that solve the  problem we're talking about  all right  you're still a crackhead  and from my perspective you only got a  couple years to live and by the way so  one thing is a couple years before you  actually die how much time do you have  in which you could still turn this  around like if you're talking about  someone who's a homeless drug addict on  the street maybe there's a window at the  beginning of the addiction where they  can still stop it and recover you know  and maybe maybe they're too far gone  like at what point you just see it does  it cease to be possible to recover you  from the hole you're digging yourself in  terms of drug addiction and as i said  before  the excuses are more difficult to quit  than the thing itself and this is a guy  who has all the excuses and he's  publishing a book with those excuses  he's really thought through the excuses  and rationalizations for for being a  drug addict right and just being real  that's like chico sam too  tiki sam has had 14 years on youtube to  present all of these excuses like yeah  well he might be fat but he can still  seduce women so well he might you know  his rationalization of his alcohol and  his diet and his whole lifestyle all the  aspects of it including killing animals  which he has talked about with me and he  has talked about his youtube channel  he's talked about you know the the  challenge that veganism poses them and  he's admitted that he's watched many  hours of videos uh from vegan leaders  you know okay well you you sorted out  all the excuses  guess what  especially as a middle-aged person  at some point the excuses become harder  to quit than the thing itself right  so i write back  if all these bad things you're saying  about me are true  you are still a drug addict  you are still teetering on the edge of  suicide  or at least you claim that you're on the  verge of committing suicide  in order to justify your decision to get  high  to indulge  in a hallucinogenic sedative  again  and again  just a pause here  you have to make those kinds of claims  in order to justify getting the quote  unquote therapy of ketamine treatment so  like for four years he's been going back  again and again and filling up the  paperwork saying that yeah he's  suffering from severe depression on the  edge of suicide so that he can keep  getting this drug trip that's supposedly  going to save his life right  and i'm alluding back to part of his  first email  that i didn't read to you guys so yeah  so this is allegedly someone who's and  you see the excuses become harder to  quit than the thing itself you convince  yourself that you have some kind of  medically real condition called  depression you know so on and so forth  um  [Music]  okay  if i had managed to fake studying the  languages i've studied it would be so  much more work than actually studying  the languages like that's the other  thing whatever people claim i've like  lied about languages i've studied or  essays i've written and published like  research i've done it's like do you know  how much work it would be to fake that  like doing the actual research or  learning the actual language doing  things like it'll be so hard for me to  fake having done these things why why  fake it you know anyway if you've  actually looked at the evidence anyway i  said to him quote you're about to go  pardon me you're about two google  searches away from figuring out just how  many languages i've studied just how  much i've learned in how many different  fields  but it's all irrelevant  if my life is a tragic failure  that doesn't help you  crackhead  you  are still a [ __ ]  crackhead  prove me wrong  learn to speak chinese twice as well as  i did in half as much time  do it sober  stop writing books encouraging others to  become drug addicts like yourself  recognize the extent to which your drug  addiction didn't help you but hindered  you in putting together the necessary  basis to lead a meaningful life  again i'm reading out his replies  not despite how meaningless they are but  because  of how meaningless they are and again  guys this came up in a recent video  about tko sam i don't feel jealousy  if this guy learned chinese faster than  i did and better than i did look at his  crap if he left me in his shadow if he  eclipsed me i would be so happy for him  you know if there was someone else i  encouraged in any any field of endeavor  through someone else i encourage to be  an author or be a creative artist and  then they're way more successful than me  i would be so happy for them and maybe  then there'd be something i could learn  from them maybe there's someone to learn  slang for me in the past  i would be so happy i don't experience  jealousy this way and jealousy is this  very very strange uh kind of self  sabotage  but he writes back and says  calling people crackheads question mark  that's why no one loves you  no one can stand you you're a horrible  person and a liar  you don't know anything about mental  health and likely have a personality  disorder yourself so just one pause guys  if this were true right if if all this  were true it was true that i was lying  about the languages of studying the  research you've done lying if all this  is a fiction and if nobody loves me  like one thing bro why are you telling  me that but dude that doesn't help you  right and again i think honestly if tko  sam were to make a a video  responsibility apparently is not going  to do it would be at this level right it  would be denouncing me he'd be saying yo  well  you haven't slept with as many women as  i've slept with anyway you just want to  be alpha because you're whatever and  really you're a beta like it would be  this level of dishing out  hollow and meaningless insults it's like  well  you know like it's irrelevant to the  topic it's irrelevant to the problem it  doesn't help you anyway so he writes  back further and says mommy and daddy  supported you your whole life  you've never been independent you're a  child compared to me grow up now look  guys i'm very honest about uh my  failures in life as well as my successes  you know but like again all this stuff  if it's true like oh gee so you're  saying like i've failed to get rich huh  like i failed to get rich doing  humanitarian work in cambodia really  yeah i should be ashamed of myself i  must be really sad  gee gee i i failed to get rich doing  vegan activism  dude i would be ashamed of myself if i  had gotten rich from vegan activism i  would be ashamed of myself if i had  gotten rich doing humanitarian work in  cambodia right i'm not ashamed of myself  because i didn't get rich doing things  that were in no way motivated by money  but like if you're corrupt if you're  evil you can get rich  hey you know um  when i moved to saskatchewan if you  don't know where saskatchewan is you  don't want to central canada  don't google it you don't want to know  when i moved to saskatchewan was i  trying to get rich  like you can't say i failed to make  money in saskatchewan when i moved to  saskatchewan i enrolled as a full-time  student of the korean ojibwe languages i  got involved with the politics and  languages of the indigenous people who  frankly are on the brink of extinction  you know their languages are close to  disappearing for the world this is  probably the last generation that has a  chance to save those languages totally  humanitarian altruistic thing do you  think i look back at my life and regret  should have gone into the oil industry  should have gotten me a job in the oil  patch pumping crude oil  i could have those were the jobs there  at that time either oil or potash those  are the big industries i could have  gotten a job as a crane operator out on  those oil so in terms of things where  you don't need a university degree you  go get your crane operator's license and  go start start helping out uh with a  backhoe moving moving there are ways to  make money in saskatchewan there are  ways to get to get rich you think i and  what regrets would i have in my life if  i look back and that was what i did  instead now you know imagine how  different a person i'd be today if i'd  if i'd worked in the in the oil industry  or any of these other things but look  man even if this were true like it's  completely surreal even if i had the  delusion that i should have gotten rich  achieve financial independence whatever  doing the things that i have done with  my even if that were a source of regret  for me it's not but hypothetically if  that were something i i regret  how does this help you right like this  is just lashing out  and this is  this is most of what we see you know  with human nature and this is why your  friend derek is never going to get sober  you know um  so and so so you want to say something  yeah  yeah come all the way  yeah i just want to say like um  this is not to flatter isil but it is an  aspect that i've seen again and again  throughout my time knowing him and  living with him and seeing him have  these conflicts with people  is i think one of the differences you  know when i think about the person i was  when i was 19 when i last saw a friend  who died of an overdose i just want to  you know i'm i'm a little bit upset  at that person like thinking why didn't  you say anything you know why did you  just when you know he was sitting there  on your couch languid and you know  probably high on heroin you know like  why didn't you try to say something  right um  you do and you get the results you know  um  and you had to deal with a lot of  i mean frankly abuse you know from from  the audience um from the people you are  directly criticizing um and  you know you've taken a lot  because of that and and to me that shows  strength and i guess a part of it too is  you know  you you go there anyway even if you  don't think that there's going to be  that positive result right whereas like  you know i think what was stopping me in  the past from having confrontations with  people is because  well this is his choice you know like  right what am i going to say that's  going to change his mind  right so i want to nail down that point  so it's a very dramatic example that you  know someone who's actually strung out  on heroin in front of you on the couch  or something and most of these  conversations we have  they're let's put it this way even even  if the person is using drugs you're  having the conversation when they aren't  high at that minute you know it's by  facebook message or whatever or whatever  face to face  i do think a lot of people live their  lives with this limiting belief with  this limitation  that there's no point having the  conflict there's no point saying it  there's no point telling the truth and  shoving down the person's uh throat like  you know saying in a way that's really  gonna have an impact  um  because there's nothing to win  right there's nothing to win by arguing  by fighting by telling the truth by you  know and again in this case we're  talking about saving someone's life  talking about life life and death so so  it's remarkable it's remarkable that  people live with that belief it is a  non-factual belief it is a  counterfactual belief it's it's a  fictive belief but people really do  what's the point in  in fighting you know what's the point  and by the way sorry so drug addiction  is kind of an easy one there are people  who have sexual molestation in their  family history like sexual abuse  sexually moral problems like that and  they really live with that like what's  the point of standing up and saying to  this person or maybe saying to their  mother or father look this is the  reality of who this guy is and this is  what he did to me or this is what he did  to my sister or whatever the situation  is what's the point of of telling the  truth what's the point of  you know of confronting  people this way okay but i have an  answer for that question  all right  what you get to control and what you get  to decide is who you  are going to be  period i don't get to decide if that  crackhead sobers up or not i don't get  to decide if this guy quits using heroin  or not i don't get to decide if this  person is willing to become vegan  literally to save their own life like  even taking out the ethical aspects and  the ecological aspects i don't get to  decide that  i get to decide whether or not i am  going to be the type of person or i'm  going to be the person  who stands up and does the right thing  because it's the right thing to do you  know who takes that on who tells them or  if i am going to be in plain english a  coward  right it's a kind of cowardice like oh  and again i'm just using these two  examples but they're really we could  give a lot of examples here like oh i'm  not going to let this person know that  their drug use is a problem or their  alcohol use is a problem that kind of  thing i'm just going to skate around it  in silence or i'm not going to deal with  and confront the fact this family has a  history of rape of sexual abuse of of  something like that that's that's really  upsetting or deal with what you but  again really there were many many many  other uh  instances and examples we could we could  get into here you're going to be  conflict avoiding rather than conflict  escalating and you're going to live with  the belief that there is no point in in  telling the truth that there is no point  in dealing with this so not to make  everything about me but if you tuned in  look  every other  kid in my family my father had nine kids  okay  they all know  joseph stalin  is bad and evil and wrong they all know  stalinism is wrong they all know mao  zedong is wrong  none of them ever confronted my father  about it nothing none of them ever  confronted my mother about it both my  father and my mother were communist  extremists not moderate communists not  reasonable communists and sorry but  there are a lot of other examples i mean  frankly uh what both of my parents had  to say about israel and israeli politics  like i'm just saying giving examples i'm  lower intensity than being in a family  that actively justifies mass murder of  millions of people it's just as serious  as growing up in a family where your  parents are neo-nazis it's just as  serious and in a sense  in one sense it's more serious there's  some ways in which it's less serious but  one way in which communism is more of a  problem in your family than  neo-nazism or racism  is that communism was on the news every  [ __ ] night right nazism was and that  season was in the past but like during  my life the conflict between the united  states and russia was ongoing  today still the conflict in the united  states and uh china is ongoing obviously  vietnam cambodia there are other  communists cuba so on right but like the  reality is you're dealing with it every  day as part of the ongoing still  unfolding politics of the world in a way  that nazism is more of like a footnote  in the politics of the world at this  point right now i'm you know saying this  of course the war in ukraine at this  moment so um you know there are  different elements  every other [ __ ] person in my family  and all of them are older than me  none of them are younger than me i was  the youngest all the brothers and  sisters  all the cousins and aunts and uncles and  and  anyway are there other people like that  other people were in a position like an  aunt and uncle whether they're not their  origins they all  took the position like oh what's the  point of making a fuss what's the point  on the truth what's the point of having  a comment about this i was the only  person who said no  there really is a point you know there  really is something to win here and it  doesn't my father went to his grave  making excuses for joseph stalin being  pro stalin and pro-mass murderer and  pro-slavery  don't want to get into it it's crazy you  know what what's packaged in with that  [ __ ] you know  oh well guess what [ __ ] it says  to any of my brothers or any of my  sisters i get to be the person who stood  up and did what was right that's not  going to be and that is now partly it's  just an end state like this is who i am  as the end of a process of development  but it's also in an ongoing process of  development you know even sorry there  are situations that are totally hopeless  this doesn't happen that often there are  in a few situations where i stand up and  talk to the cops where i really have a  conflict with the police and other  authority fears of that and i have no  sense that i'm going to break this  policeman's heart and change them it's  possible it's possible some of those  conversations i have with the cops they  later really went back and thought about  it and reflected on it because it's  probably very rare for someone to step  to a police officer and say hey this is  wrong this is right what's going on here  man well that's what we all want  everyone to do that's every time there's  another disaster with police brutality  why didn't someone stand up to the cops  why didn't someone tell the cops what  was wrong wrong what was right it takes  real strength for most people it's  terrifying this is a man with a gun and  the ability to put you in a cage you  know he can just make up some [ __ ]  even if you've done nothing wrong put  you in a cage for a couple days one with  the results you can make your life  really miserable this cop has power over  you or do you have what it takes to step  to that police officer and say hey this  is wrong this is right and in effect  escalate a conflict create a created  conflict about it and again the the  excuse people live with the limiting  belief people live with is that there's  nothing to be won there's no point  you're never going to convince your own  father not to be racist if you have a  racist father you're never going to  convince your own father not to be a  communist if you have a communist like  whatever it is you know you're not going  to win the argument no no no no no it's  not about winning the argument right  it's about being the person who can make  that argument it's about becoming the  person who can do those things and  that's what you become through through  making that having that level of  commitment having that level of risk  then having the kind of self-discipline  and emotional character that that comes  with it and going through that again  again and you get to live with that  level of preparation all the time and if  people say hurtful things happen to the  internet it happens in real life too  when i do have conflicts in real life  i'm able to just laugh at and shrug off  things that are really devastating and  hurtful for other people because i've  had that that preparation i've lived  with this comes back to the first thing  that's in the video i've lived with  taking my life seriously  in that way and even this ridiculous  email correspondence shows it right like  oh okay well i'm going to take this  really seriously there's one human  being's life to save maybe there's  somebody in the audience what's going to  save their life yeah exactly and you get  to be that person that you can look back  on your life yes i did that instead of  being self-pitying about it oh i could  have done this and i didn't you know  that that sense of regret i mean that's  something i heard when i was really  young that i just didn't understand  where yes like  the regret of not doing something is  worse than the regret of having done  something and you know suffering the  negative consequences because you know  i've had i've been in these situations  with you where you stood up to people in  positions of authority and that  i admire that but initially i was  thinking  what are you doing you know like you  were put in jail right that was even for  somebody uh even in a an airport you  know  these people are not the police but  there's a sense in which i feel  powerless and i am living in this you  know  position where i have to do whatever  these people in authority are telling me  to do  and then you know realizing no there's  another option you know if somebody is  in effect mistreating you  or you you know it could be someone else  that may stream but they're doing their  own thing yeah they're doing the wrong  thing whether it's something that you  know they are directly flouting the laws  uh flouting what they're supposed to do  the rules of their job or just being  really  rude and and you know you know there is  an option where you can stand up to  authority um and  yes you might you know bear the brunt of  insults you might have to um  deal with some unpleasant conflict and  you know but in effect you have to  practice that uh you have to become a  better person that way  so look you know um  i know a lot of these are very  emotionally charged examples talking  about your relationship with your own  parents  and uh  drug addiction and  nazism and communism and so but you know  um  this might seem like a this might seem  like a  very tame example by contrast but when  you're living through it in the moment  it's really difficult emotionally  i stood up and confronted a whole series  of professors  this comes back to tko sam i stood up  and confronted a whole bunch of  professors at my university about the  fact that the teaching of japanese was  broken like the way they were teaching  japanese it was a total disaster and  like i could prove on paper nobody can  succeed in this nobody can learn the  language this way the way you're  teaching it so just very briefly but one  of the things they did they started with  a course that was so many months long  and then they cut it in half  and they said we'll make it an intensive  course we'll do it in half as much time  and then they cut it in half again  so you're down to a point where you  could just say look this is the number  of words per day you're expected to  memorize there's no time here to pray  like like it was already a bad course to  begin with you you doubled it and we'll  cut it in half and cut it in half or  doubled and doubled the intensity like  there were there were some ways in which  it was like not just my opinion that  this course doesn't work but like really  demonstrably factual  okay i believe from memory about six  professors  um privately person to person agreed  with me they said look you've pointed  out something really important here like  you're you're right about this okay i  think if i'm wrong and it was five  professors and so like i'd have to take  a minute and just remember each of them  but i'm just saying they're not that  many professors in the university there  aren't that many professors involved  with the teaching of japanese and the  teaching of chinese right so you know  there aren't that many people involved  but whether it was four or five or six  you know so but dude that was such a  hard conflict to deal with face to face  and in some ways it's ruined my life i  like i didn't win in terms of my own  self advancement right but sure there is  a point you know part of the point is  those six professors right they went on  to design and change the curriculum for  the teaching of chinese and japanese the  next year and the next decade at that  university and at other universities and  what several professors said to me which  i completely believe is before you stood  up  nobody was aware this problem existed  nobody institution knew there was a  problem at all like this was completely  under swept under the carpet no one was  aware that these courses were were crap  well just be honest she was a really  nice lady the one woman who taught my  first japanese course  she did know and i remember there was i  remember i wish i'd kind of taken her  advice she's japanese in her very kind  of quiet way she was like look you  should drop the course like it's  terrible you know  now of course i wish i'd taken her  advice that would have been easier for  me right okay so you know one effect is  like even though i lost the battle right  like you actually did create the basis  for some kind of positive change in  future this way sometimes especially  with a totally authoritarian totally  non-democratic institution like a  university that's the best you can do is  you can just make people aware of the  problem right and i've had a huge impact  on those professors lives none of them  will forget me i'm sorry i've seen  melissa's seen this too  if you think i've had an impact on tko  sam and you know you you hear back i  hear back about it verbally from other  professors and i've seen it on the  internet i know  the impact on those professors it left a  mark okay on their life for real and  probably no other student will ever do  that for them in their life maybe maybe  one or two will probably nobody else  ever ever did that right  guess what  this is who i get to be this is who i  get to become all right that conflict  wasn't easy for me  either but i quite literally became a  better man  through that conflict there's no  exaggeration to say like people talk a  lot about [ __ ] personal growth and  [ __ ] right like what does personal  growth mean what if personal growth  means you stand up and do the right  things that's the right thing to do and  it totally destroys your academic career  it destroys the possibility of you  getting a master's degree and a phd but  it was the right thing to do and now you  don't have an mar phd but you get to be  you get to be eizel-mizzard you know i  get to be the man that i am you know i'm  so happy i'm so happy to wake up every  day and be me let me tell you  and you know  so look i just say these are more subtle  examples than standing up to somebody  who's a drug addict or an alcoholic or  what have you but these are the kinds of  conflicts we have in our life and you  can't live with this belief that there's  no point in having the conflict there's  no point telling the truth that there's  no point in dealing with it there is a  point and the point is that you become  the kind of person who can tell the  truth even when it's inconvenient even  when it's hard that you can deal with it  that you can't overcome those things in  other people and overcome them in  yourself you know that's that's  that's the most reliable positive  outcome i can tell you about and maybe  as with making this video as of making  this series of videos about tko sam  maybe there can be some other positive  outcomes  for other people you know  um  anyway the the correspondence with adam  closes with my saying to him  yeah  you have nothing to learn from me  whatsoever  there is just no way that you could  possibly take positive motivation or  inspiration from this discussion  nor from my youtube channel in general  the only way you could respond to this  is by insulting and denigrating me  that's what a mature adult would do in  your situation there was certainly no  possibility that you could look back at  what you've done with the last five  years of your life and be filled with  regret  none  in closing this video  this is what i see when i look into the  eyes of tkyo sam  i see someone who  is  [Laughter]  he's intelligent enough to regret  what he's done in the last five years of  his life now last 10 years last 15 years  let's just stick with five years or a  round number so to speak  okay  he is intelligent enough to be filled  with regret  when he looks back  on his life  and he won't  let himself  feel that regret he's making an effort  constantly he's in this  struggle  to distract himself to justify to  excuses so that he won't feel that  regret so that he won't deal  with that regret and what he can't  imagine  is how positive  that feeling of regret could really be  in his life right what he can't imagine  is that feeling the regret i mean it's  not going to be the end of your life  right  it's the first step towards making those  positive changes it's beholding what  you've done beholding what you've you've  been doing the excuses you've been  making with your life you look back on  that then you turn around and you look  ahead you're like well i've got another  five years  ahead of me right you can take that  first step  of giving up making the excuses  right  and then you can start to change not  just the decisions that you make  you can start to change the person who  you really are